There's been a lot of talk these days
about AI not delivering on the promise
that we hear especially at enterprises.
>> These things take six to 12 months to
get them truly robust enough where an
important process can be automated. Like
with any of these major tech
revolutions, headlines tell one story
and then on the ground laying broadband
means you need to dig up every single
road in America to lay it. Someone's got
to dig up the road or someone's got to
run the undersea cable. Is there
anything you think people don't truly
grasp or understand about where AI
models are going to be in the next 2
years?
>> The general trend right now is going
from models knowing things to models
doing things. The next question becomes,
what can it do for me? How does the
agent make decisions for you?
>> Let's talk about scale and this whole
world of AI that you're in. You
essentially pioneered data labeling,
training data, creating evals for labs.
>> 18 months ago, you would get a short
story and it would say, is this short
story better than this short story? And
now you're at a point where one task is
building an entire website by one of the
world's best web developers or it is
explaining some very nuanced topic on
cancer to a model. These tasks now take
hours of time and they require PhDs and
professionals.
>> I've talked to a bunch of people that
worked with you over the years and I
heard a lot about just how high of a bar
you set for new businesses. From an
entrepreneurship standpoint, it truly is
about what insight do I have? Why am I
so lucky to have this insight? Why in a
world of a million entrepreneurs who are
thinking, who are smart, who are trying
everything, why am I in the position
where I likely have an insight that
others do not?
Today, my guest is Jason Droy. Jason is
the new CEO of Scale AI. This is the
first interview that he's done since
taking over for Alex Wing after the Meta
deal. Alex now leads the super
intelligence team at Meta. Prior to
scale, Jason co-founded a company with
Travis Kalanick before he started Uber,
worked at a couple startups. Most
famously, Jason launched and led Uber
Eats, which went from an idea that he
and his team had to what is now a
multi-billion dollar run rate business
and one that basically saved Uber during
the pandemic when nobody was taking
rides. This interview is following a
theme that I've been following through a
bunch of interviews, which is the
evolution of how AI models actually get
smarter. along with scaling compute and
improving the actual model code. Much of
the improvements we're seeing in chatbt
and claude and every frontier AI model
is these labs hiring experts to fill in
gaps in their knowledge and correcting
their understanding of how things work
and basically showing them what good
looks like in every domain that
consumers are using models. Scale was
the pioneer in this space. They created
the category. And in our conversation,
we talk about what is happening at scale
and just how this deal with meta worked.
What experts like doctors and software
engineers are specifically doing to help
models get smarter. How the whole market
of data labeling and evals and data
training has changed from when scale
entered the market to today. And also
just how long will we need humans to
keep helping AI get smarter. We also get
into where Jason sees models going in
the next few years because they have
such a unique glimpse into the future.
We also talk about a ton of really
unique and really important product
lessons from the course of Jason's
career, including a bunch of advice on
how to start a new business, both
startups and within existing companies,
and also a bunch of advice on hiring and
leadership and so much more. A huge
thank you to Alan Penn and Steven Chow
for suggesting topics for this
conversation. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if
you become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of 15
incredible products including lovable,
replet, bolt, nan, linear, superhuman,
dcript, whisper flow, gamma, perplexity,
warp, granola, magic patterns, raycast,
chatd, and mobin. Head on over to
lenny'snewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Jason Droy.
This episode is brought to you by merge.
Product leaders hate building
integrations. They're messy. They're
slow to build. They're a huge drain on
your road map and they're definitely not
why you got into product in the first
place. Lucky for you, Merge is obsessed
with integrations. With a single API,
B2B SAS companies embed Merge into their
product and ship 220 plus customerf
facing integrations in weeks, not
quarters. Think of merge like Plaid, but
for everything B2B SAS. Companies like
Mestral AI, ramp, and Drada use merge to
connect their customers as accounting,
HR, ticketing, CRM, and file storage
systems to power everything from
automatic onboarding to AI ready data
pipelines. Even better, Merge now
supports the secure deployment of
connectors to AI agents with a new
product so that you can safely power AI
workflows with real customer data. If
your product needs customer data from
dozens of systems, Merge is the fastest,
safest way to get it. Book and attend a
meeting at merge.dev/lenny
and they'll send you a $50 Amazon gift
card. That's merge.dev/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by Figma,
makers of Figma make. When I was a PM at
Airbnb, I still remember when Figma came
out and how much it improved how we
operated as a team. Suddenly, I could
involve my whole team in the design
process, give feedback on design
concepts really quickly, and it just
made the whole product development
process so much more fun. But Figma
never felt like it was for me. It was
great for giving feedback and designs,
but as a builder, I wanted to make
stuff. That's why Figma built Figma
Make. With just a few prompts, you can
make any idea or design into a fully
functional prototype or app that anyone
can iterate on and validate with
customers. Figma make is a different
kind of vibe coding tool. Because it's
all in Figma, you can use your team's
existing design building blocks, making
it easy to create outputs that look good
and feel real and are connected to how
your team builds. Stop spending so much
time telling people about your product
vision, and instead show it to them.
Make codeback prototypes and apps fast
with Figma Make. Check it out at
figma.com/lenny.
Jason, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Yeah, thanks
for having me. Excited to be here.
>> As I was researching your background and
prepping for this podcast, I learned a
really interesting fun fact about you
that I don't think a lot of people know.
So, uh, Travis Kalanick, he had a
startup before Uber. It was called
Scour. It was a peer-to-peer file
sharing app that I think got shut down.
You were his co-founder. This was the
early part of your career. I'm guessing
there are hours of stories we could talk
about during this experience. So, let me
just ask you this one question. What's
just a lesson that has stuck with you
from that experience that you've taken
with you to future places you've worked
and built product at?
>> I mean there's so many lessons how like
to pick one. I think that like the main
lesson uh is that in business and in
startups uh everything's negotiable.
I think that's like the main thing
because we were 19 at the time, 1920.
Um, at the time we built this search
engine in a dorm room. Uh, and we were
running it out of the dorm room. And we,
our first URL was scour.cs.ucla.edu.
And you know, these things were like not
necessarily infractions at the time, but
we were just being practical. It was it
was basically a project that we had
started. And so we built the search
engine and you know people started using
it and we thought we would get in
trouble but it turned out the computer
science department was excited about it
even though we had like basically parked
a domain on their you know on their
servers. Um and we were using our own
computers in the dorms to serve up this
website uh and product and and then and
then when we got into financing uh like
the financing process was fascinating.
our um and this is where the sort of
everything is negotiable lesson came
from which is uh it was Ron Burkel and
Mike Oitz who were the initial investors
in the business. We were in LA so we
were at UCLA so we were not quite wired
into the entire Sand Hill Road scene and
as we were doing the deal the terms kept
changing at us. You know we thought you
went and raised money you know and and
it was like oh we'll get a few million
dollars at a $5 million valuation. This
is back when like that was actually a
series A like valuation. Um, and then
over the course of the deal, it was
like, "We're doing the deal. We're not
doing the deal. Oh, you should give us
50% of the company. Oh, you should give
us 75% of the company. Oh, if you want
to sign the document today, um, this
person's going to show up for breakfast.
Um, and if you don't sign today and give
us 80% of the company, the person's not
going to show up." It was just like
completely wild, uh, the things that we
saw from day one of what can happen in
business. And we thought there was like
a way to do things. And at a very young
age, we realized there is no way to do
things. There is just the way that you
can negotiate your way through the
world. Um, which I actually think
influenced Travis heavily and then me
later heavily at Uber in terms of if you
can imagine it and it makes sense and
you can align incentives uh then it can
happen but there is no like way and to
learn that at 19 or 20 years old I think
was highly imprinting.
>> That is an amazing lesson. What what
happened to Scour it got shut down I
think. What happened there? Well, yes.
So, at the time, so basically what Scour
was was it was a multimedia search
engine and then peer-to-peer file
sharing network, but what it was used
for was finding free content and uh at
the time it like the laws around this
were pretty ambiguous uh because we
weren't, you know, like mixtapz were
legal, but this was like a hyper version
of that. But we we were eventually sued
for a quarter of a trillion dollars. So,
I guess if you're going to experience
something that's potentially as life
devastating as that, you know, doing it
when you're I think we were 21 or 22 at
the time is the time to do it. But it
was just like this like very um uh uh uh
you know, cold splash of water about how
the real world really works because the
NBAA and the RAA were the ones who sued
us. The entertainment industry sued us
um or the associations that represent
the entertainment industry and then they
settled it for a million dollars. So
we're like, wait, you wanted a quarter
of a trillion dollars and then you
settle for a million dollars. And of
course, they were just trying to drive
us into bankruptcy, drive us out of the
market, like, and these are established
companies. So we're like, if these guys
don't have a playbook to follow, they
just kind of make up numbers, then wow.
Like, how should we navigate like the
rest of our lives?
>> Let's talk about scale and this whole
world of AI that you're in. This is the
first interview that you're doing since
taking over SEO at scale. I'm honored to
have you here to talk through this
stuff.
>> Yeah. Uh this also the first interview
you're doing since the whole meta deal
which is very complicated confused a lot
of people. So, uh, I'm just curious to
hear the current state of scale, what
people should know. For example, what's
your relationship with Meta? What's your
relationship with Alex? Uh, what is the
current state of scale?
>> Yeah, so Scale is a fully independent
company. The transaction was uh Meta
invested a little bit over 14 billion to
get 49% of the company non- voting
stock. Um, didn't didn't take a new
board seat. Alex fills the board seat.
Um, so the board is the same. the
governance is largely the same. There's
no preferential access to anything that
Meta has. There's no preferential
relationship. I mean, we've had a
long-standing relationship with Meta um
uh on the data side of the business for
a long time. And even on some business
development related things to, you know,
maybe working on things in government
together, etc. And so those might get
bigger just as we're closer now, but
there's nothing that prevents us from
doing things with other parties and they
have no access to anything that they
wouldn't have had otherwise. Like all
the privacy still in place, all the data
security still in place um that that was
there before and in fact uh only about
15 people went over in the transaction.
So scale has about,00 employees or so
now and we have two major businesses. Um
each of those businesses has each of
them is hundreds of millions of revenue.
So we kind of have two unicorns inside
the company today that sustains the
business has grown every month since the
deal happened which I've read the
reporting is not consistently reported.
We haven't talked about it right so this
is part of getting the word out and you
know we're excited to continue to build
deliver data and do what we did before.
>> Okay. So the company today independent
its own company Alex just to be clear he
works at Meta now he's no longer at
scale.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's right.
Excuse me. I should have I should have
talked about that more. Yeah. Uh I think
that's really interesting. So basically
it was an investment. Uh some people
left to join Meta. The company
continues. You're running the ship.
Let's talk about this whole space that
you guys essentially pioneered. I don't
know best way to call it. Data labeling,
training data, creating evals for labs.
You guys were at this before anyone even
knew this was a thing. I know even scale
pivoted into this market from other
things. I think there was like a bunch
of stuff they tried with self-driving
cars and all these things and then it's
like oh AI labs need this data. One
of the main stories I've been hearing is
and I've had a bunch of cos from this
space on the podcast is that there's
been this big shift from the way from
what scale had pioneered and had been
doing for a long time which is
generalist lowcost labor training from
that to now labs mostly need experts
lawyers doctors engineers doing training
writing evals things like that I'm
curious just what you're seeing how
that's impacting you guys where you
think things are heading what people
should know about this whole market of
data training data uh labeling Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Totally. I think I think the
the the current um positioning out there
from competitors is just bogus. Um you
know, so I'll start with that. Uh and
then maybe talk a little bit about I'll
explain what I mean by that in a second.
But I think it's important to just give
30 seconds on like what the history of
scale is and what's the thread going
back to 2016. So Alex had this insight
um in very early days that the important
thing to models was data. And um I think
he was 19 or 20 years old at the time as
well. And so he's like, "Okay, well,
what business would I create around
this?" And the business that he created
around it was, "Okay, let's do labeling
for autonomous vehicles." Um because if
you label the data that um they have,
the the cars do better. Um you know, and
then that wave turned into the computer
vision wave, which uh we have a
relationship with the Department of
Defense where we do labeling for them.
And that was in 2020. and and then you
move forward and the and and the models
have gotten better over this period of
time and so the model as models get
better they need different types of data
so we've constantly been adapting to the
type of data that models need to be
successful and so then the genai wave
hit and this went through the moon uh
you know or to the moon um and so as
part of that that industry is changing
constantly too so I mean it is correct
that when the models came out two or
three years ago the mo I mean remember
using them. They would hallucinate all
the time. They would get basic answers
wrong. Um they didn't know which poem
was better, you know, this poem or that
poem. And that was the state of labeling
a couple years ago and things have
changed quickly and we've changed with
it. And now the state um for everyone
and we've been at the forefront of all
of this uh is expert data labeling um
more sophisticated uh uh tasks. So to
give you a sense of what the task was 18
months ago, um I've been here about 13
months, so I was interviewing and I
remember seeing it. Um you would get a
short story and it would say, "Is this
short story better than this short
story?" And then you would edit it and
be like, "Oh, it would be better if it
was this." And you would give some
preference ranking to it, right? It was
pretty basic 18 months ago. And then you
had and you had the rise of some
experts, but the models were so far
behind that they needed just even the
basic stuff they needed. And now you're
at a point where a task is one task is
building an entire website by one of the
world's best web developers or it is
explaining uh some very nuanced topic on
cancer to a model and these tasks now
take hours of time and they require PhDs
and professionals. So to give you a stat
to back this up, 80% of the people uh
that we have in our expert network have
a bachelor's degree or greater, which is
very contrary to some of the positioning
that's out there and some of the
understanding of this industry. Um about
15% have a PhD that's greater and we
have PhDs on the network earning like
significant amounts of money doing
labeling, contributing their expertise
to these models. Um so we've been doing
expert data labeling ever since the
models needed. I mean like like this
game is keeping in touch with the
researchers, knowing what they need,
coming up with ideas internally. In some
in some ways we drove this because um we
were seeing that the models were not
sufficient in more expert ways and so we
would go to the model builders and say
hey like we noticed that this is a
problem if you would like to fix it like
this cadre of experts can do that for
you. So yeah, I like the counter
positioning is out there, but I think
that's just what pe what competitors say
sometimes. Um like it has nothing to do
with reality.
>> Okay, that was extremely interesting. So
what I'm hearing is yes, there has been
a big shift to labs need more uh expert
uh folks involved in training, labeling,
writing evals. You guys are very aware
of that and have evolved with that. One
of the I don't know allegations I guess
in the market is that it's hard to find
these experts. Uh so all these companies
have their proprietary network of
experts and how they find them. Is there
anything you could share about just how
you guys go about that because that
feels like the hardest part is finding
these experts and keeping them from
other companies.
>> They are hard to find. Um you have to
have many many tactics, right? So we get
you know as you would expect there's not
one way you do it. The largest way is
that they refer each other. Um because
when you are enjoying what you're doing
um and you are using your expertise to
contribute to AI which is pretty cool
like if you're a PhD on this like pretty
specific topic and you're using a model
and you're frustrated that oh it doesn't
it doesn't interact with me in the way
that I want this is a paid way to have
an outlet for that and to make hundreds
or thousands of dollars doing that. And
so a lot of times they refer each other.
Um we also have campus programs where
we'll we will where we will literally go
onto the campus and talk to the
professors, talk to the students, you
know, ask about, you know, who would
like to do this type of work. Um and
then of course there's the more
traditional scaled ways of like LinkedIn
and you know, you know, places like
that. But the best ones come from these
sort of grassroots and referral
networks. And the only way you get that
is providing a great experience to to
these people because these people like
they're doing it partly for money, but
they're also doing it because they think
that their contribution to the AI models
is important and interesting and and in
many times it it solves a problem for
them. So, something that I've been
seeing on Twitter just this week as I
was preparing for this is there's this
uh uh the information headline that came
out and this mirrored something that
Brendan from Marhor said that over time
the entire economy is going to move
towards just reinforcement learning and
everyone's just training AI is basically
the jobs that will be left. Thoughts on
on that? Is that is that where you think
things are going? Is there another
perspective?
>> Reinforcement learning is very
important. Um and and I think this is a
broader uh comment about the move to
environments. Um there's these things
called RL environments that effectively
are sandboxes for AI agents to play in
to accomplish a goal so that they can
learn how to accomplish that goal. Um
we've been doing this for over a year.
So for example, you have a Salesforce
instance. How does an AI agent navigate
that instance? That instance has data
that it needs to recognize. It has
configurations. You know, Salesforce is
a highly configurable product. Like has
configurations it needs to understand
how to navigate. You're you're you're
asking the agent to do a business
process that needs very high
reliability. And then the agent needs to
know, hey, if if uh I can't accomplish
what I'm going to accomplish or I think
if there's a low low uh accuracy of what
I'm about to accomplish, how do I uh pop
it up to a human being for feedback so I
can get guidance? All of those things
need to be trained. And there's no uh
there's no alchemy to it. You just have
to put the AI agent in an environment
that that represents what uh a human
being would be doing. And you can
imagine the number of environments in
the world and the number of goals within
each environment is enormous. So the
question is and the uh research that we
have done um over the past year to try
to be a good partner to our model
builders our model builder customers is
uh how generalizable
is each individual task or each
individual environment. So if you
imagine the world of like environments
of like software systems um
configurations, data types, sizes, user
counts, complexities, it's like the
permutations are endless. So what you
need is you need a strategy that allows
a lab to collect data um that is
generalizable enough across a broad
spectrum of use cases so that they don't
have to collect 45 trillion combinations
of what should the agent do in this
particular situation. So sometimes the
work and the data is highly
generalizable. And by by generalizable I
mean you have it accomplish you know in
a simple way the task might be uh uh uh
find the most uh you know find the
meeting on my calendar uh for my um
interview with Lenny and the agent goes
and it looks through all my calendar and
then it pops it out. Right? Very simple
example like that needs to be
generalizable to any calendar search
potentially or pot or potentially any
calendar action. And the more
generalizable it is, the more valuable
the data is. So our job is to provide
the the most valuable data to model
builders that uh accomplishes
uh the goal of making agents as useful
as possible for their end users.
>> I love that you've been sharing these
examples of what the stuff is
specifically that these people are doing
the data you're providing to labs. So
just to mirror back a few of the
examples you've shared, one is an
engineer building a website, sharing the
code essentially with the model and
here's how I would do it. And is in that
example, is it just like here's the code
or is it like a recording of them watch
building it? What is the data?
>> It's it could be um um it could be both.
Uh so in some cases it's just the
website and here's like an example and
then they design it. Um, in some cases,
um, it needs to be annotated in such a
way that's like, I made this decision
for this reason or this decision for
that reason, um, or here's how I would
think about it. So, it depends on what
the model builders are trying to
accomplish. And so, it can get quite
nuanced in terms of what they're trying
to train on.
>> Got it?
>> So, you know, it's not like here's a
website and then it's great at doing
websites. It's like here's a website,
here's why I made this decision, here's
why I didn't make this decision or
here's a broken website and here's why
it's broken. if they're trying to
accomplish, I don't know, a debugging
tool for a website builder or something
like that.
>> And another example you shared is a
short story where it's like, here's one
short story, here's another imagine
generated by a model and then it's like
which is better and then how would you
make it better? The other example you
just shared is a Salesforce agent where
it's like hey uh book a meeting with a
prospect and then uh teach it how that
happens. I love just how concrete these
are because it's like okay I get it.
This is the stuff that these companies
do. Is there another maybe one or two
examples just to give people a sense of
what what this data looks like?
>> Absolutely. I can actually give you an
example from um so so we have two sides
of our business. One we supply data to
model builders. We sell the data and
then the other is is we actually do um
solutions. We do we sell applications
and services to healthare systems,
insurance systems, etc. Um, I actually
think it would paint a more colorful
picture if I gave you an example of one
of those because it involves data, but
but it involves the use of data, the
manipulation of data for a very very
specific goal. And so one example there
is uh we work with a health care system
and they uh uh health systems have lots
of problems. um this particular health
care system has experts that um see very
rare cases uh on a regular basis. So you
go there only if no one else can figure
out your problem and there's a huge
backlog. So um so there's a productivity
element to this implementation tier. So
there's a huge backlog. They want to be
able to see more patients. They want to
be able to provide better care and they
want to prevent the number of revisits
because they want to give the accurate
diagnosis day one and what the treatment
should be. Well, to do this today um
without the help of AI, uh the doctor
really needs to read two to 300 pages of
documentation and it's and it's and it's
rolled into one document but in
different formats
and so if you're a doctor, how are you
going to read two or 300 pages of
everything? So what they do is they do
the best they can, right? They scan it,
they ask a nurse to look at it, they ask
a maybe a more junior doctor to take a
look at this case because they want to
treat the patient well. like like
obviously this is you know this is why
they became a doctor and then they go
into the room and they talk to the
person and then they make a diagnosis.
Well, we basically built a tool that
will read that document for them and
point out the top five to 10 things that
they should take into consideration.
either allergies that might not be
obvious um is is you know is one example
where we actually we picked up on an
allergy that a patient had that would
not have been obvious from reading the
document and and that allergy actually
would have had a conflict with the
medication that they were going to be
prescribed and and so the AI tool
basically pulled out this correlation
that would have even been hard for a
human being to do to make this tool
better and better. you get to a certain
limit with the models off the shelf and
actually the people inside of this
healthcare system have to do their own
labeling.
So we talk about labeling for model
builders but um we actually start we're
starting to see the labeling move into
enterprises um and into governments
because you can only get so far with
off-the-shelf plus rag plus some
fine-tuning based on recorded data. One
thing people often miss about these
systems is is we assume because you hear
these numbers of like oh this bank
ingests 200 pabytes of data a year or
you know whatever fantastical number um
what we miss is is it the right data
which of data is useful to the models
and most of it is not useful and some of
it is but a lot of what we do when we're
talking about knowledge work when we're
talking about making judgment is human
judgment based on synthesizing like how
would this doctor in this case or how
would this banker in this case make this
decision and and how would they make the
decision in the context of their overall
enterprise and that might be different
bankto bank healthare system to
healthare system because of the culture
the objectives the incentives etc and so
we're getting to the point now where we
see that digitizing judgment human
judgment true subject matter deep
expertise is becoming a bottleneck that
we're unblocking for our customers
>> that's really interesting it's it's like
the spectrum went from just low skill
generous labor to experts to now like
the specific expert at this one company
who needs to do this work this labeling.
>> Absolutely. I mean I mean understanding
what you know I I there's this broad
narrative you know we kind of have two
narratives we have like the AGI like
everything is just going to become AGI
and then there's the skeptics which is
like you know hey this is all bunk like
this is a bubble etc. And of course I my
view is most things are kind of like
there's truth in between and some of the
extreme parts of the extreme are
probably correct but you know the
reality is is that uh it's very hard to
get uh missionritical use cases in
agentic systems where agents are talking
to agents to a level of accuracy and um
that is necessary to accomplish a goal.
And one of the main issues is that a one
document like like think about the
problem of even understanding a document
like a a document that reads the exact
same words in company A will have a
different meaning and importance in
company B. So how do you have a system
that knows that?
So this has all got to be built. So um
uh if you're going to make good
decisions. This is a good segue to this
question that is always on people's
minds when they look at companies like
yours and the other folks in the space
is just how long do we need people to be
doing this? Like at what point will AI
be smart enough to do it themselves? I
know your incentives are to say we will
never run out of people because it's
aligned with your growth, but just how
how should we think about just like why
do we need people I don't know in 10
years like how long do we need these
experts telling AI things it doesn't
know?
>> First off the history of data labeling
is a history of new beginnings, right?
like they you know autonomous vehicles
um do not need as much data labeling as
they did in the past. So the company I
mean like scale is a company that
believes that data will always be
important at the point at which you
don't need external data human data in
models. I think we've gotten to a level
of advancement in the world that is
almost like unfathomable because you're
effectively saying that like no new no
new human skill and no new human
knowledge is important enough to put
into these models. That feels like
pretty far out there. And so uh you you
know for a business like ours we're
constantly looking at how do you build
operations that can uh constantly find
the new needs and then work with the
contributor network we call the experts
contributors to unearth that data to
unearth that information and sometimes
it's new people sometimes within our
existing base we find that that existing
people have expertise we didn't know
about that maybe wasn't useful to a
model a year ago but now is useful so
you So these you know this is this is
this is a constant progression of
getting more and more data into these
models. You know yes we are financially
incentivized to believe that humans will
always be in the loop but that's not
just a business belief. It is a personal
belief like these systems need to work
for us and if these systems work for us
then we will need to be on the loop or
in the loop on any of the decisions that
these systems make. as to the broader
point around labor which I think comes
up around white collar apocalypse and
these things that kind of come up. I'm
definitely on the on the more maybe
practical side of this. Uh possibly just
because of my nature, possibly because I
see what's going on on the ground
actually in these customers where
supposedly this transformation is going
to happen in the next one to two years.
And I just think that like it might
happen. The space is moving super fast,
but I don't think it's going to happen.
I like it's definitely not going to
happen in the next year. Um the idea
that it happens in the next two years, I
think is like very far-fetched, but
nothing's impossible here. And long term
I think that if you go back through I
don't know like pessimist archive or
whatever these like you know accounts
that post the radio was invented and
then you know like all of this will be
eliminated. There will be change but the
change I think humans are very good at
adapting. So I think what we're
underestimating in all of the doom and
gloom is we believe in human
adaptability. We as a company are highly
adaptable and I think the history of
technology has shown that people are
adaptable.
>> I really like that takeaway. I'm an
optimist as well, so I'm always looking
for reasons to be optimistic. Uh I I
want to follow that thread, but before I
get there, something very tactical I
want to ask about is uh eval seems to be
coming up a lot, especially with
companies in your space. I'm still
learning a lot about just what this all
is, especially uh in your market. How
much of what you experts are providing
are are eval
types of data?
>> Yeah, a lot of it's eval. And within
enterprise customers and government
customers, it's mostly eval because
somebody's got to establish the
benchmark for like what good looks like.
That's the simple way to think about
eval. What does good look like? And and
and you have a comprehensive set of
evals so that the system knows what good
looks like. It's as simple as that. So
in the case maybe of the healthcare
example you shared essentially this
doctor would be sitting there looking at
all these reports creating evals that
are like this is what this should be
discovering in this report in this
record. Is that a way to think about it?
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's a that's a very big
part of it which is what does good look
like?
>> Awesome. Okay.
>> I have to reduce things down to simple
terms.
>> It's interesting you say good versus
correct. Is that a specific term you
like to use? good versus just this is
the the correct answer.
>> I didn't intentionally use that word but
these are probabilistic systems and so
you know depending upon yeah so I I'm
getting some nuance here about the right
types of problems that AI um is good at
solving. So if you have a human process
that is like 10 or 20% AC like accurate
or 10 or 20% liked AI is awesome because
it can get you if you get to 50 60 70
80% accurate you're in the money like
you're in the green everybody's happy
now now the system then has to know hey
for the remainder how do I make sure
that like humans are involved for the
remainder of the decision-m but from a
net value ad standpoint the humans are
pumped in that scenario if you have uh a
human process, a workflow that is 98%
accurate and you expect an AI system to
get you the remainder of two remaining
2%. Not totally there yet. And so and so
when I say what does good look like a
lot of the processes and a lot of the
things that people are asking these
systems to do and systems for us to
build are making judgments on their
behalf. And so just like we would ask a
human being, hey, what do you think we
should do in this scenario?
they you know like what you're looking
for is you're looking for the best
recommendation or course of action given
the current information
>> to you this is so obvious and to people
in your market that I think a lot of
people think about AI being trained on
just here's a bunch of data check it out
learn everything you can from all of
human history and all of written record
but what's wild is basically people are
sitting around teaching AI things it
doesn't know filling gaps like that's
how AI is getting smarter now there's no
more real data for it to feed on it's
just like here's what I don't know okay
or here's what an expert found you're
wrong I'm going to teach you this and
the fact that it scales and that's
what's keeping models improving is so
mindboggling yes no I yeah I agree I
mean like with any of these major tech
revolutions you know the headlines tell
one story and then on the ground you
know laying broadband means you need to
dig up every single road in America to
lay it like like there is the there is
the like yeah it's as simple as that
someone's got to dig up the road or
someone's got to like run the undersea
cable. Like there's always some
operational
chiseling that's going on in all of
these industries. I mean, if you think
about how magical these models are. I
mean, it they're like they're remarkable
that like if you've been in technology
long enough, it's like it blows my mind
even today that they get the punctuation
right consistently. I mean that sounds
like almost daft to say like at this
point in the market, but if you were to
go back three years and think about that
from a technological standpoint, like I
think like like a lot of things that we
think are trivial now are very
sophisticated and it's a combination of
I mean like the real answer is is it's a
combination of computational power,
model improvement and data and all three
are getting better at once.
>> Let's follow that thread. You've been at
scale for a long time, CEO for you said
13 months. I feel like you see a lot
more about where things are heading
because you work with labs on things
they haven't even announced yet. You see
more than most people and I know there's
only so much you can share about what
models what companies are doing but just
is there anything you think people don't
truly grasp or understand about where AI
AI models are going to be in the next 2
3 years? Look, there's so much talk.
Yeah, I think it depends on how much X
or uh news you consume. Uh so I think
it's like what's sort of our perspective
the general trend right now is going
from models knowing things to models
doing things and uh you know we're
pushing the boundaries of knowledge like
the benchmarks that we put out and that
others uh put out um are showing that
the knowledge uh you know the knowledge
that these models have is getting it's
quite robust. Um, and then the next
question becomes, well, what can it do
for me? And as soon as you get into that
world, that's where the like the
environments we were talking about start
to come into play. How do you navigate a
Salesforce instance? How do you navigate
a healthcare system? How do you navigate
um even like a weather app on your
phone? You know, uh, and how does the
agent make decisions for you? Uh, we're
just getting into the beginning of that.
Uh, it'll be very interesting to see how
quickly that happens. And I think that's
where a lot of the speculation has a
wide variance because because we're at
the beginning of it, people take
different trajectories on like how
that's going to improve. And so if you
take a trajectory of like the most
aggressive trajectory, which is like,
oh, it's actually going to be quite easy
to train on these things and then it's
just a change management exercise in the
economy, which by the way, change
management exercises are not to be
underestimated like um you know, there's
still people in the world without an
email address. And so the uh uh the
adoption curve then becomes like a human
and policy issue not a technological
issue. We're not there from the
technology standpoint. But I do think in
the next two to three years if I you
know you take the bait and like have to
make a guess is the technology will get
to a point where it will push the change
management and policy makers to say like
oo what do we do with this because it's
getting pretty close. That's probably
two or three years away. There's been a
lot of talk these days about AI not
delivering on the promise that we hear,
especially at enterprises. There's this
like MIT study that just showed that
there's all these pilots that people are
excited about and then they don't work
and companies aren't adopting these
tools. There's data showing engineers
are not actually as productive with
tools like it actually slows them down
sometimes. You work with a ton of
companies implementing all kinds of AI.
What are you seeing on the ground? What
kind of gains are you seeing? Do you
feel like uh it's overhyped, underhyped?
>> There's a lot of hype out there. Uh and
our job is to actually build products
that work that deliver value for our
customers and figure out where the
rubber hits the road and to get a
sophisticated you know my healthcare
example is one um we do other
sophisticated workflows claims
management for insurance companies right
this is a financial decision that's
happening but it's an automatable
process but basically what happens is
the PC's get to like 60 or 70% of the
way there and the human mind goes oh the
is no big deal. But it's kind of like
uptime in data centers where like every
nine is like, you know, an order of
magnitude investment, you know, in terms
of like reliability, backups, etc. You
know, one nine is like basically, you
know, a web server in a dorm room like
we had at UCLA. Um, you know, and then
59s is like this crazy like high bar,
but it just seems like a very small
movement. So, you kind of have a similar
dynamic going on here where you have a
bunch of people, you know, one of the
reasons why the PC's have failed. one
one there's a denominator effect because
it's so easy to do hey I spun up a
project I spun up a project I spun up a
project so like that you know it's it's
really easy for people to try so I don't
necessarily know that like the 95%
number I think is a bit of like
clickbait in a way um it tells the right
story but it is a little bit hyperbolic
because if you take the efforts that
happen in a company where they actually
get a get it you know get a quality
partner like we are um if you get you
know you know or if you do it yourself
if you have engineers who have worked
with models before and they put in the
time um and I'm talking about like
months, not like minutes like you see in
these videos to actually get legal
approval, policy approval, regulatory
approval, um uh change management, like
an accuracy that everybody's comfortable
with. If you actually do that, you know,
these things take six to 12 months to
get them truly, you know, robust enough
where like an important process can be
automated. So, I think that's where like
the hype is right that when you do it,
the impact is like whoa. Like I never
would have figured that out myself and
and I'm one of the most educated doctors
in the world as an example. Uh but the
time to get there is just longer than
what people are selling. It's such a
good point that it's not only is it easy
to try these things, it's just like
everyone's doing it. So, everyone's
feeling FOMO like I got to try these
things. I got to try all these
prototyping tools, cursor, all these
things. is just cuz everyone's doing it
and then you just rush into it and it
doesn't actually work out.
>> Yeah. Easy to learn, hard to master.
That's like that's my summary.
>> Yeah. This episode is brought to you by
Mercury. I've been banking with Mercury
for years and honestly, I can't imagine
banking any other way at this point. I
switched from Chase and holy moly, what
a difference. Sending wires, tracking
spend, giving people on my team access
to move money around. So freaking easy.
Where most traditional banking websites
and apps are clunky and hard to use,
Mercury is meticulously designed to be
an intuitive and simple experience. And
Mercury brings all the ways that you use
money into a single product, including
credit cards, invoicing, bill pay,
reimbursements for your teammates, and
capital. Whether you're a funded tech
startup looking for ways to pay
contractors and earn yield on your idle
cash, or an agency that needs to invoice
customers and keep them current, or an
e-commerce brand that needs to stay on
top of cash flow and excess capital,
Mercury can be tailored to help your
business perform at its highest level.
See what over 200,000 entrepreneurs love
about Mercury. Visit mercury.com to
apply online in 10 minutes. Mercury is a
fintech, not a bank. banking services
provided through Mercury's FDICins
insured partner banks. For more details,
check out the show notes. Okay, let's uh
let's move on from AI. If this could be
an endless discussion about AI, but
you've got a lot more uh lessons to
teach us. You've uh helped build uh Uber
Eats. Uh you've had a couple startups in
the past. We talked about Scour for a
bit. Uh there's a I've talked to a bunch
of people that worked with you over the
years and I got a lot of really
interesting insights into the stuff that
you're extremely good at. So, I'm just
going to kind of go through a bunch of
these. One is your obsession with being
close to customers, talking to
customers. And I I love this topic
because it's something everybody thinks
they are great at and they feel like
they completely understand how this is
important, why this is important. They
all feel like I'm doing this. Don't even
don't worry about everyone else is not
doing this, but I am.
>> Talk about just what you think maybe
people miss about how this looks when
you're doing it well and just why this
is so important. I mean, I probably fall
in the category of what you just
described, which is maybe like, you
know, maybe part of the hubris you need
to start anything new. Um, but, uh,
yeah, I mean, my, uh, I don't think it's
like a clean process. Uh, I think my
process is I'm constantly questioning
every single thing that I'm hearing at
the beginning of anything. I don't take
what a customer says like literally. Um,
and there's been a lot talked about on
this topic from like a product
management standpoint in terms of like,
oh, don't do what they say, do what they
mean, and look at the real problems,
underlying things. I think I think the
way that I look at it that might may be
additive to the discussion is I look at
the underlying incentives of the
customer and the underlying incentives
of customers are not always financial.
Sometimes it's ego, sometimes it's
career growth. Right? Right? If you're
selling enterprise software to, you
know, to someone, there's an executive
sponsor as an example, that person needs
to trust that like you're going to do a
good job for them. How do you get them
to jump with you on this like big
project? Well, that's part of the
journey of like not just the product,
but what do they need to hear from us?
What do we need to supply them? What do
we need to do to actually unlock the
opportunity to implement the product?
So, I think there's like an incentives
alignment baseline. Like I'm a big
believer that like you know you know
it's cliche but you know show me the
incentive and I'll show you the outcome.
I think that's absolutely true and even
when customers will tell you things like
I'll give you an example. I've been out
of game for a while so I can be open
about it. Uber Eats. So when we launched
Uber Eats I looked at the business you
know we you know in terms of being close
to the customer. We actually couldn't
get a restaurant tour. I I I knew
nothing about this industry. So at Uber,
my job was to figure out what other
businesses we should get into. And so we
looked at a billion businesses. And Uber
Eats, you know, like food delivery was
the one that we thought was most
interesting, which turned out to be
right. So good for us. Very. And you
couldn't get a restaurant tour to help
us understand their unit economics. And
you know, they'd say like, "Oh, it'd be
this percentage or that percentage or
why do you want to know?" And then we go
to a different restaurant tour. And they
and they would kind of explain it, but
they were a little suspicious. They're
like, "Why are these Uber guys talking
to me about, you know, like how much my
ham costs?" And so what we did is we
ordered just a bunch of food from these
places and then we got a you know a
restaurant supplier to give us like a
base catalog and we just matched up like
how much does the ham weigh, how much
does the cheese weigh, how much does the
bread weigh, how many pieces of lettuce
are on there and we tried to actually
just compose our own independent view of
like what's the ingredients cost versus
what's the labor cost and then and then
we sort of triangulated like what was
our ground truth and then what are we
being told by restaurant tours and then
what is like the the site guys telling
us about restaurant economics and if
those things like all overlap then we're
like okay we have an insight about what
to do here and how does this relate to
Uber Eats? Well, what we found as part
of this is that roughly a restaurant
pays 20 to 30% of every meal to
ingredients and they pay roughly 20% 20
or 30% to labor and they pay roughly 10%
to real estate and a bunch of other. So,
kind of goes on the chain, but the
important parts is what's the value of
incrementality.
And so, we came in and we said, "We're
going to charge you 30% of the bill."
And they were like, "Oh my god, is this
group on all over again? This is way too
high. Oh my gosh." And we explained the
economics to them and they were like,
"Okay, we'll give it a try, but this is
way too high." And they were right. The
real number, the like the real clearing
prices are on 25%. But we weren't that
far off. And so when you go to find like
product market fit or you know, you
know, be close to the customers, it's a
combination of like what's the most
valuable thing? Well, in like in a
restaurant tour's case, give me
incremental demand. Because if you were
to take a restaurant location and triple
demand based on the same labor, the same
ingredients, uh, excuse me, the same
labor, but you're just scaling
ingredients, you've got a 70 to 80%
incremental gross margin product.
Restaurant tours would hate when we we
would say this because it doesn't work
out exactly like that in reality. But
like because we had that insight, we had
confidence that we could go to market
with we need to charge you this so that
the delivery fee can be that. And then
if the delivery fee is that and we
charge you this, then we think the
consumers will adopt and that's what you
need to get your incremental demand. So,
and then we could pay the driver this.
And so you kind of fit this whole puzzle
together without totally satisfying and
you in the case of a marketplace, you're
not totally satisfying any individuals
like 100% of their needs. What you're
satisfying is is like you're getting a
clearing rate for them to participate in
the market in the case of a marketplace.
So that's like one example. Yeah, I love
this example as you almost you figure
out how to help them uh with something
they don't even fully themselves know
yet. So, it's you think through their
goals for them like as if you were them.
Break down the economics and then here's
the solution versus hey, what can we do
for you guys?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you walked into a
restaurant, they would tell you a bunch
of things. They would say, oh, labor
scheduling is like an issue. They would
say um my rent is an issue. They would
say all these, you know, my my
ingredients prices are an issue. That's
20 or 30%. If you could get shave off 3%
of that, that would be huge. You might
then take that and go, I'm going to go
build a business that's going to save
you 10% on your ingredients cost. Well,
but that doesn't actually get into their
head on like what's truly important
dayto-day. That might be important for
them on an annual basis, but on a daily
basis, what are they doing? They're
looking at their numbers. They're
looking, did people show up? How did did
I make money yesterday? Am I going to
make money tomorrow? So like the
urgency. I think the biggest thing
people miss when they're building new
products is the urgency of the buyer
part of it. You can build something that
provides a lot of value, but if it's not
the top thing that the customer is
thinking about in their busy days, then
you're just going to have a long road to
a small town.
>> This touches on just a theme I heard a
lot about you, this idea of independent
thinking and how much you value that.
And this feels like a really good
example of that. Is is there anything
else along those lines of just like why
this way of thinking is so critical? I I
think as a founders's job and I mean I
stretch that term because at Uber we had
all of the benefits of Uber so I wasn't
really a founder. I just sort of started
the business there but uh but there are
some elements of founding there. Um is
you're looking for alpha in the market.
Like when we started our first company
in 97 it wasn't that cool. Like it might
have been cool in Silicon Valley but it
was definitely not cool in LA. Now it's
super cool to start a business. So as a
result everyone's kind of trying
everything. So, how do you get alpha on
that market? I, you know, if you're just
if your research is highly influenced by
what the world is saying around you,
you're not going to have an independent
insight. Like, you kind of have to go
off and do your own thing. And this is
why from an entrepreneurship standpoint
like I like I have a very I have very
strong feelings about like what the
approach to founding a company should be
and is probably very particular to me
but um it truly is about what insight do
I have because like why am I so lucky to
have this insight? Why in a world of
like a million entrepreneurs who are
thinking, who are smart, who are trying
everything, why am I in the position
where I likely have an insight that
others do not? And then why am I the one
to do it? And like the answer might be
I'm in this narrow far-flung place. The
the other answer might be like I am
inherently a contrarian personality
type. So I'm just constantly looking for
the you know the you know the thing
that's true that people don't believe is
true, which sometimes worked. But then
the second part of that super important
which is like why do I want to work on
this problem for 5 to 10 years and like
people get this wrong all the time. They
go and talk to a customer and they go uh
they have a problem. I'm going to go
solve it. And it's just like not a great
way to like start a business. Like you
really have to have this burning desire
to constantly be questioning yourself.
The other thing about independent
thinking is is that you can't fall in
love with your ideas and and and I do
not proclaim to be the world's greatest
independent thinker for what it's worth.
These are this is this is what you've
been told. um but uh is is just like
part of that is basically throwing away
who you are, who you've been, all your
ideas for the mission that you're on,
which is like trying to accomplish
something for a customer.
>> This is great. I'm gl I'm glad you went
here. This touches on the other theme I
heard often about you is just how high
of a bar you set for new businesses. And
I think this this advice is useful both
for founders, as you said, and also
people starting companies within
companies, new business lines. Uh, so
you've talked about this a bit already,
but is there anything more there of just
how high that bar needs to be for you to
for it to likely work out when you're
starting something new? Look, if if you
want to give yourself the best chance,
and this isn't always how it works, but
if you're like in my position 25 plus
years into their career, if you want to
give yourself the best chance, I think
there's two ways that uh uh companies
end up working out. Um, and the first
way, which is probably the most
important quite frankly, is that the
founder is just a force of nature over a
long duration of time because you're
going to have to pivot. You have to have
that energy to pivot. You have to go
years and years and years with it being
hard. And that's probably the most
important thing. But the second most
important thing is that you can easily
educate yourself on like what are good
business models, what are bad business
models, what are good markets, what are
bad markets. And even if you're this
force of nature, having the knowledge,
if you're going to go into a bad market
with a with with all your energy, you
should at least know, you know, maybe
ignorance is bliss because you just
throw yourself into it and it just kind
of works out with time. But like that's
not how I would operate, which is
marketplaces are good businesses. SAS,
at least historically, we'll see how
this changes, but like SAS historically,
great businesses, recurring revenue
businesses, sticky businesses, network
effect businesses. And if you look at
what um the top VCs invest in um yes
there is a lot of like portfolio
building but there are similarities in
terms of the types of business models
that they believe could be worth tens of
billions of dollars and they have
network effects they have lockin they
are more valuable at scale than big
scale than low scale so if you just take
a filter on a new business you know this
is what I did at Uber which is like if
if you just have a filtering mechanism
on a new business it doesn't take that
long to eliminate the bad ideas and then
like of what's left you can pick oh I'm
very passionate about this even though
it might have more problems than this
other thing that on paper looks better
and and then you have to have passion
about it but yeah like I think people
just miss like a basic understanding of
like what businesses even have a chance
of being worth hundred billion
>> so you launched Uber Eats you figured
out this is the place to go and bet uh
out as an outsider feels obvious of
course this is going to be massive
success. Of course, food delivery, such
a good idea. Uh, I know you looked at a
ton of ideas in that process. Can you
just talk about what you explored and
why you ended up picking your breeds?
>> I am definitely not the smartest person
in the room when it comes to like
figuring these things out. And so, I
keep a very, very wide aperture on ideas
for as long as I can until I'm like,
okay, everything is coalescing. And I
think there's a bunch of reasons why you
have to keep an open aperture on
considering ideas that might seem bad at
at the start, but you just keep digging
and see if you're right that they're bad
or you're wrong. So, just as a general
phil philosophical principle, I'll start
there. We looked at um we did some crazy
stuff. Um uh uh we put, you know, like I
went walking around San Francisco one
day and I I looked down Market Street
and there was like a CVS, a 7-Eleven, a
CVS, a Walgreens, a 7-Eleven. And I'm
like, how many SKs could possibly be
inside one of these things that people
want? And couldn't you just put that
into a van and like, you know, you hit
the button on the van and the van comes
around and you get whatever convenience
items you have and they're convenience
items. So like, why would that be a
problem? And we launched that in DC. We
put like 10 of these trucks on the road.
We put like 250 SKs in them. And I mean
crickets is an understatement of how bad
it was. I mean, we did we couldn't get
an order to save our lives. And what we
realized was that we hadn't really done
the research on what convenience stores
really were. It was, you know, if you
didn't have cigarettes, you didn't have
beer, you didn't have slurpies, you
didn't have these things, like for
example, like you didn't bring people in
to sell all the other things. So, we
didn't know anything about retail. We
were clueless. Um, so that's like one
idea. We looked at grocery, but
honestly, the unit economics just
terrified me of like all the pickpacking
and everything like that. I think
Instacart did a remarkably good job at
getting the unit economics to a good
spot and like probably the hardest
operational problem you could tackle. Um
we did generalized delivery like
pointto-oint delivery what's now I
forget what Uber's product is called but
like Uber direct I think it's called um
where you you have something it needs to
go pointtooint in a city that was kind
of a flop from the beginning because the
truth is is like how consumers don't
really have this needs business sort of
have this need and in 2014 when we were
doing this no one had this need so but
like we c we tried like 15 versions of
all these things before we eventually
just said okay the food delivery thing
is just popping off on all signals and
we can make the unit economics work.
People seem to want it. It's a super
cool problem because we can like enable
independent restaurants with like all
these tools and allow them to compete
with the big guys. We can take the real
estate out of the equation. So you can
have a real estate location that's
non-prime, but if you have prime food
then you get to compete. So we're like,
"Oh, this is a very interesting problem
and we can really help local economies."
And this ended up being uh if I remember
correctly this basically saved Uber
during co Lyft didn't have something
like this and how big is this business
at this point? Anything you share about
just the how important this turned out
to be for Uber?
>> Yeah, of course. Well, we launched it in
uh December of 2015 in Toronto and
within like two hours we had done like
$20,000 for the sales. It was crazy how
quickly we saw that that it was the
right idea. um and the unit economics
for good. And then four and a half years
later, I was at Uber for about six
years, but it took us about a year and a
half to figure this out. Four and a half
years later, it was about $20 billion.
So 0 to 20 billion in four and a half
years, which is pretty good. Um Uber was
very good at scaling things. Uh but
competitive market, you know, um others
did well. We beat a lot of people, some
people beat us. And then now I think
it's pushing 80 billion. Um and that's
been for another four and a half years
since I left. I think COVID turned it
from 20. I left right before COVID.
Total coincidence. Um uh uh 20 to 50 in
like a year. So yeah, I mean ride
sharing went this and you know food
delivery just went like to Pluto.
>> What luck? Well done.
>> Luck is part of the game. That's the
other thing that's important to realize.
Luck is part of the game. So do not do
not begrudge people for luck. Like this
industry is hard. All these things we're
doing are really really hard. Luck is
just part of the game. one of your maybe
speaking that maybe not. One of your
colleagues, Stephen Chow, who uh I'm an
investor in his new company. He worked
with you at Uber Eats for a long time.
>> He told me to ask you about the
McDonald's story. Uh I imagine that was
just the big milestone, a big moment, I
know, for you guys. So, why did you
decide put McDonald's in Uber Eats and
there's apparently a story of how you
won that deal?
>> Yeah. So, it was kind of interesting. Uh
and this just goes to maybe like where
sometimes uh uh ignorance leads you
leads you to accidentally the right
answer. Um, so we had launched Uber Eats
and Uber had a global footprint and we
were the only food delivery network with
a global footprint excluding China and
so Uber was everything at Uber needed to
be launched globally. That was a very
big part of the culture etc. So so which
which is a lot of work and you can
spread yourself too thin and cause other
problems but in this way it was good.
And so my vision was, okay, let's let's
help the little guy like um compete with
all these chains. You know, they have
these systematized food systems and like
food is what makes a city amazing and no
one talks about the chain restaurant
that they visited in Paris. You know,
they talk about the local place that
they found and like let's be part of
that. That's who we want to be. And so
McDonald's actually approached us and
they said, "Hey, we'd love to do food
delivery with you." And I'm and I said
no. And they're like, "Hold on a second.
Like we have like 80 million consumers a
day. Like you don't we don't want to do
this together." I'm like, "It's not
really like our vibe right now." And so
I push them off for like four or five
months until my team is like, "You're
insane. Like these people are going to
put marketing behind it. They really
want to do this. They want to lean in."
So we actually had a we because of that
I think I think it's hard to correlate
these things like we ended up with this
exclusive relationship with them. got an
insane number of customers. Um, chains
at this point actually weren't really on
food delivery networks because everybody
was so worried about the unit economics
because they're so sensitive to the
basket size. And my approach was like,
eh, figure it out, right? Which is a
very Uber culture thing. Like, okay, the
basket's $17. It's our job to make that
work. Reduce the radius on the delivery,
figure out the economics, maybe mark up
some of the food someplace, you know,
like there's always a way to figure it
out. So, we did it. And then, you know,
3 months later, the business just like
started hockey sticking again at like a
different level and my team is just
like, "Dude, you were so like uh you
were so um stubborn on this point." But
I think it actually ended up being in
that benefit because we got a great deal
with them.
>> So, the fact that you pushed him out
helped you get a better deal is what I'm
hearing. That's amazing.
>> Yeah, I think that's the story he would
be referencing. And then the onboarding
of it was crazy because you know we
basically went global with them in like
six months and at this point the
business was less than two years old. So
you know activating this you know I
don't even know 80year-old company that
expects processes to be in place and we
have like two of our ops managers in New
York managing it. It was just mayhem.
>> Uh I'm still sat in and out is still not
on any of these apps.
>> Yeah, me too.
>> I I remember someone was hacking it.
There's all these ways people found a
way around it and they're like, "No, no,
okay. You're Postmates, so we know we're
not going to give you any food."
>> Yes. Love In and Out.
>> You've touched on this idea of gross
margins and margins, how obsessed you
are with this. I wanted to spend a
little time on here. I think I think uh
I've heard just you're obsessed with
understanding gross margins before going
in on anything. Most founders have no
idea what they're doing here. What have
you learned about just what people
should be paying attention to, what
they're might be forgetting when they
think about just the feasibility of a
business?
>> Yeah, look, it's one filter like many
filters. Um, there are certainly
businesses that have low gross margins
that are great businesses. Uh, Costco,
Walmart, etc., you know, Amazon talks
about this all the time of like there's
companies that increase prices and
there's companies that lowers prices.
But I would say that by and large, high
gross margins uh, combined with healthy
churn curves are a very healthy sign for
the business. I mean, think about it.
Like, if I were to sell you something
and I can't mark it up a lot, how much
value am I adding be like like beyond
what's in my hand? And if I'm not adding
that much value, then what am I in the
business of doing? Um, and and I'm in
business of adding value. And it's not
quite that simple, right? This is just a
litmus test of like when someone comes
to me and they go, especially in a new
business, and we deal with this, I dealt
with this at Uber. I've dealt with it
everywhere. um they you know someone
comes up with an idea and they go we can
get into this business and I think we
can charge this and it'll get us to a
40% gross margin. And then my next
question is start at a 60% gross margin.
Why does that not work? And they go oh
well the customer and immediately you
short circuit to like what the real
problem is. Oh the customer has an
alternative. Oh okay. Well who's the
alternative? Oh it's some offshoring
company. Well what's their gross margin?
Oh we don't know. You go find out it's
like 20%. and they've been around for a
long time and they have scaled
operations and you're like okay so like
your gross margin is going to go from 40
to 20 quicker than you think and you're
going to be in a world like a world of
hurt unless you do something to
differentiate so I take gross margin as
just like a very coarse instrument not a
perfect instrument to think about am I
adding enough value am I differentiated
it's not perfect but it's like a very
quick shortcircuit filter to like even
to see if someone's pitching you an idea
have they thought through this dynamic
because if the response is, "Yeah, gross
margin is super low right now, but
here's the dynamic I'm going after." And
then you're like, "Oh, okay." And
sometimes it's like, "We'll just make it
up with volume." And the gross margin
will go negative for a while. And you're
like, "Wait, wait, wait. This doesn't
work." So, what I love about this is
this is just a lens into is my idea good
enough if uh studying can I keep a high
gross margin? Can I is there a reason
why people in the space haven't been
able to have a higher margin?
>> Yeah. Exactly. And and and like I said,
it's it's meant to disqualify like just
like you know, you're doing these large
for larger companies and everybody has
ideas and so you just it's like like
it's a way to cut through like do you
understand like the the machine that is
going to need to be in place in two or
three years like you might have a a 70%
gross margin now because because the
next question is is why can't someone
else do this? And if you have an answer
of like, well, they can now but they
can't in 2 years if we run really fast,
okay, we might have something. Um, if
they can now and they will be able to in
two years, you're going to have margin
compression.
>> Along these lines, I was just listening
to I think it was the AC16Z podcast.
Alex Rumpel, I think, was sharing this
story about Costco, how, as you said,
their strategy is actually to keep
margins very very low because all their
revenue comes from their sub their
membership. So they have something like
50 million members charge paying 100
bucks a month and that's their entire
business and so they don't plan and they
don't want to make money off the
products. Yeah, that's right. I mean
they're playing a slightly different
game. Not an expert on Costco. Um uh
have spent some time with the company
but like um they use price as a way to
get to scale,
right? And so they're basically saying
if we discount same with Walmart, right?
Like we will get so much volume that we
will just take the air out of the room
for all of our competition. And so then
the question of okay so if you have a
low gross margin today in two or three
years once you land one of these centers
in a market like why won't your margins
get eroded the answer is because we will
have already absorbed like all of the
demand like you you try to go to 8%
versus 10% gross margin which I roughly
think is what their gross margin is like
that's going to be really hard business
if you already have a habit with a
customer they have already built their
weekly trips around you already have
relationships with suppliers you already
have general managers that like know how
to stock inventory that's not a
straightforward exercise. So, so, so
they are like first to scale and then
good luck competing with them.
>> Okay, just a couple more questions. One
is there's this term that I've heard uh
that you uh often say and believe in is
this idea of not losing as a precursor
to winning.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Talk about that.
>> Tech is a culture where uh portfolios
are bu are built by investors and a lot
of the narrative is controlled by
investors frankly. Um, founders
obviously participate, but um, this idea
that you should just go for it is
consensus. Just go for it. Who cares?
Um, well, I don't know if it's my life
and I only have one moment every, you
know, to like take a shot, I might want
to just not just go for it. Like I might
want to think for a little bit. And uh,
uh, and I think the best entrepreneurs,
I have no data to back this up, but just
these are my friend, this is my friend
group. I think the best entrepreneurs
and the best business owners look at the
risk profile of the decisions that
they're making and they try to make
asymmetrically
um positive decisions like all along the
way. And so, um, often times I I feel
like we forget about the risk of a
decision. And there's more to unpack
there because I actually think taking
highly risky decisions and then having
it work out is a weird cultural thing
too because then have you train people
to do that because it's a very hard
thing to take high-risisk decisions. I
mean, right enough because it creates a
lot of volatility. But it goes back to
my comment about like the most important
thing in founders which is just this
ability to persevere through, right?
Survival is just part of the game and
most people just give up before they
could get their timing right, before
they get the right insight with the
customer, before they get the right
product in the market. And and life can
change quickly in tech. You can go from
being a dog to being a hero in like a
very short period of time, but but
you're on this very very long journey,
but you have to survive for that
condition to be met. And so then and so
then the question is is like when you're
in a hype cycle, I would argue that we
are right now. Everyone wants to go for
it and then go for it more and then go
for it more and go for it more and you
don't realize like guys these all of our
customers are going to be around in 5
years. Like they just want us to solve
their problems. Like we have to be
around to solve their problem
for for them. And so survival is a
precursor to that. So let's not put
ourselves in position that could
potentially like compromise the
enterprise along the way. Doesn't mean
don't take risk, but think about how you
calculate.
>> I love how clear it is that this lesson
and the many of the lessons along these
lines have come from just failure and
things not working out and things
breaking, which is the best.
>> If you ever get on the other side of a
high a high reward, high-risisk
decision, it is so painful because you
are just cooked.
>> You are done. and and and and often
there's no way out.
>> Is there a is there a story along those
lines that comes to mind or an example
of that?
>> Well, this is where I mean, you know,
this is where it together on like why I
try to be so like I think you can spend
a little bit of time thinking upfront to
save yourself a lot of pain downstream.
I had this business um not worth
detailing it, but but after the bubble
burst in in 2001, I'm like, I'm going to
self-fund a business. I'm going to build
a profitable business. I want to prove
that I can do this. and we had started
Scour which had all the things we talked
about. And so what I did is I'm like I
was a golfer and frankly there was
nothing to do in tech. So uh I started
selling used golf clubs on the internet
and I was making real money. Um and I
might have learned more from this
business than any other because I
started on eBay and like I was 22 and I
didn't really understand that like my
margins would come down because anyone
can do this but I was one of the first
ones to do it. So, I was making a ton of
money and then I built this business and
then I just failed to recognize I had a
lot of hubris. I was like, "Oh, if I can
just buy all the used golf clubs in
America, I can be the market maker for
for for for prices." And don't be
>> That's great.
>> Yeah. And it's just like it's madness to
actually think about the practicality of
that. And so, I just didn't spend the
time thinking and then I ended up in
this business. The business was
profitable. It did got to a couple
million of revenue, whatever. Paid me a
dividend for a while, but it was painful
the entire way. I love the spectrum of
experiences you've had. You've uh sold
golf clubs. You're helping uh achieve
AGI could say. Uh there's also a whole
business uh part of your career we
haven't talked about where you built
tasers and body cams and drones and all
these things. Uh also pure pure file
sharing before anyone else. Uh final
topic I just want to spend a little time
on based on this experience is hiring
and building teams. Something that I
know you have a really strong take on
that I've been hearing a lot on this
podcast recently is this idea of it's
more important to build the right team
than find the most optimal top talent.
Talk about that why that's so
interesting and important.
>> As of late I've developed a more more
nuanced view of this um uh which is for
certain roles you absolutely need the
right experience in this current market.
You know you see this with researchers
right because the the market's moving so
fast you don't have time to train up
some people. So you actually have to go
find people either who have the right
relationships with customers that you
want to get or you have to you know who
might not check other boxes but like you
know are awesome at that like might not
check the classic boxes that I think
you're referencing of like they're a
problem solver they can grow with the
company they have a high trajectory etc.
Um I would say that that's like 5% of
the roles in a company but like very
important whenever speed to market is
important and then for interviewing I
just interview for three things and I
have to interview across all kinds of
like expertises.
um which is hard you know I can't be an
expert in everything and so I reduce it
down to just three things which is like
are you a curious problem solver and can
you articulate that verbally
um can you work across
people like are you humble enough to
work across and are you um a good leader
and if you just do those three things
you know I think you have a pretty high
chance of success at least in an
organization that I'm
Um because the world's changing, right?
So you do need people that are
adaptable. So all the experience is not
necessarily like onetoone relevant. And
then and then and then the working
across to your team point. Uh this
actually came up at Uber Eats. So like
when I was building the Uber Eatats
management team, I'm I'm I'm not sure if
this was mentioned to you from that
group, but like um uh whenever I would
hire people, I was trying to compose
almost like an organism of strengths um
and then like minimize the conflicts. uh
that management team for the most part
outside of some of the operations side
but like for the most part that
management team was the same management
team from day one when we had nothing to
$20 billion and I just believed that the
team knowing each other's strengths and
weaknesses and being able to compensate
for each other was more important than
the classic advice you get around like
well that person hasn't seen this much
scale and you're like well yeah but can
they learn it like I learned it like so
you do have to kind of believe in people
a little bit which is my job, not
necessarily their job. Um, and so, you
know, I mean, these are people systems.
They're not they're not straightforward
rules-based things you can apply.
>> And I especially love this advice
because there's all this talk about what
skills will matter in this world of AI
doing other jobs. And it feels like
these three buckets are maybe the same
thing, just are they good at solving
problems? Are they good leaders? Can
they collaborate well with other people?
>> Yeah, I don't think that the core like
rise of humanity it will change. Um, and
I think that these things are pretty
core to like how humans have been
successful for a long time.
>> Speaking of that, I'm going to take us
to a recurring segment on this podcast
that I call AI corner, where uh I ask
folks this question. What's some way
that you've found uh a use for AI in
your day-to-day life, in your work that
makes you more effective, get more done,
get better stuff done? Honestly like uh
when I came into scale uh you know so my
history was in consumer and I'd done
some application level stuff with
government and this space is moving so
quickly um AI is my uh you know I use it
as a tutor you know as these new
concepts come up uh you know I have a
lot of people in the company who can
educate me on the nuances of the
technicals of like all of uh excuse me
like the technical nature of like the
data and the products but they only have
so much time and honestly like there's
new concepts coming up all the time and
I need to stay on top of it. So I like
it might sound crazy but you know a
large percentage of my job is not
dealing with the engineering issues
related to AI. Um I'm managing an
organization but I I love understanding
it. It's like one of the most enjoyable
rewarding parts of my job is to learn
from all these AI researchers but they
don't always have the time to do it. So
I use it as a tutor like like I turn on
voice mode and talk to it on my way into
work. So, I think that's probably like
the most impactful thing that I use it
for. Um, that's also relevant to this
topic.
>> I do exactly the same thing, especially
when I'm prepping for these podcasts.
Like, what exactly is this? Uh, this I
think about when you say this. I did a
interview with the founders of
Perplexity a few years ago asking about
how they work at Perplexity and the
founders said that before they have a
rule, before they ask a question of
anyone on the team, they have to ask AI
first. And I was just like, that's
crazy. Like like now it's so obvious.
But back then I was like, that's an
insane way of working. I've never heard
of this before. Uh just a sign of how
ahead of the curve they were.
>> Yeah. I think number two would be I'll
take internal documents and I'll ask
what's the most important thing in this
document.
>> And I'm shocked. And then I'll read it
and just double check. Um but I'm
shocked at how good it is at just
pulling out. There's so much in
organizations that is like I don't know
what you want me to say and I don't know
what I need to know but like we each
have our own agendas and so this
matching of and so then there's like
this huge broadcast problem where it's
like of all of the information you might
want to receive like how what's actually
important to you and so I use it a lot
for that too.
>> Amazing. Hey, that's a really good tip.
I use it for legal documents. Just like
what should they know about what they're
trying to do here for me or against me?
>> Jason, is there anything else you wanted
to share or leave listeners with? Maybe
double down on a point before we get to
our very exciting lightning round.
>> Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I I
think the really important the reason
why I'm doing this, the reason why I um
you know, wanted to spend time here
outside of wanting to be on the show for
a while and, you know, being a long-term
um listener um is uh or longtime
listener, excuse me. Um is, you know,
there's there's a lot of amazing work
going on at scale. Um the teams are
working super hard. We're delivering a
ton of value for our customers. The the
public narrative has not represented the
work that the people here are doing and
and the work that our customers are
doing with with what we're doing uh for
them. And I just think that deserves the
respect and reward that um all those
people are putting in. And you know, we
you know, we'd like people to know that.
>> I appreciate you saying all that. With
that, we've reached our very exciting
lightning round. I've got five questions
for you. You ready?
>> Yeah. Let's go for it.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> Uh some of these sound interesting. Uh
The Selfish Gene is like one of my
favorite books.
>> I love that book. I love I don't know if
anyone's ever mentioned it. It was one
of the most influential books for me,
too. So, sorry. Keep going.
>> Yes. I think selfish gene um road less
traveled I've read more than once just
uh I mean it's just a like one of the
classic human psychology book. And then
I think in business I think uh uh like
good to great. It's it's not the like
it's not the read that you're going to
be most excited to you know enjoy on a
vacation. But like it's pretty much
right. And I think we should take advice
from people who have analyzed these
business problems before because not a
lot's changed, but we keep acting like
everything's changed.
>> What's crazy about that book, you look
at all the companies they talk about, I
haven't read in a while, but just like
the whole book is about companies that
last I believe. Uh or maybe that's the
other book. I don't know. But anyway,
all the companies that they talk about,
I don't know if they're still around.
It's like so hard for a business to last
a long long time.
>> I would also recommend uh uh uh thinking
slow and fast, right? That's the Yes.
>> Thinking fast and slow.
>> Thinking fast and slow. Excuse me.
Sorry. It's been like a decade since I
read it. Like just in terms of point
there being like human biases are very
important to understand.
>> What's really crazy to me about that
book and Canaman in general, someone
asked him just how's your life been
impacted by learning all these biases
humans have. He's like not not much.
Like I I have the same biases. Knowing
them doesn't really help me avoid them.
>> See, I find myself checking myself
whenever I get super convicted on
something now. I will like be like,
"Okay, what is the list of things that
I'm like inclined to do to try to like
catch myself?" Because, you know, I
think we're most um inclined to have
these bad decisions impulsively.
Uh which is which is what I think the
book is largely about. I mean, it's a
long book.
>> So long. Oh my god. Uh feels like that's
where AI could help us in the future.
Just like, "Hey, Jason, have you sure
this isn't a framing effect or
whatever?"
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Okay. Uh, next question. Do you
have a favorite recent movie or TV show
that you've really enjoyed?
>> Most of the movies I watch are with my
kids. So, um, I wish I had something
deep and profound, but
>> no, kids kids content also is a very
acceptable one.
>> Yeah, the Formula 1 movie I thought was
really good. I mean, you know, it's a
classic, you know, classic action movie.
I don't think it informs anything in AI
or business, but uh, it's good to check
out from the craziness of tech once in a
while.
>> Is there a product you recently
discovered that you really love? Could
be an app, could be clothing, could be a
kitchen gadget, anything along those
lines.
>> V3, right? Not totally new, but um uh
when I was in high school, I wanted to
be a screenwriter. This is I actually
grew up in the Bay Area and everybody
was an engineer, but like I wanted to be
a screenwriter. And so I went back and I
got the first page of one of my old
scripts. Um which not good scripts, but
like you know, I got the first page. I
took a picture of the script and I fed
it to V3 and I said, "Make this scene."
and it got it right.
>> Wow. I was shocked. I was I was just
like absolutely shocked that you could
just take a picture of a script. Um, and
so now I'm thinking about that for like
you know how do I use these tools for
like family videos like you know um uh
uh some of the GRT tools now with like
you know live you know making live
images um uh more active I think are
like really interesting like I think
they need one more step of iteration but
uh I think those are going to be really
like emotionally life-changing for
people because you because just like a
little bit of movement in an image from
a grandparent or a relative or whatever
you haven't seen in a while. It really
does make a big emotional impact on you.
>> I love that when you play with these
tools, you probably can think about, oh,
here's like the people that helped train
this thing. Here's the people that
helped unpack a problem that I had.
>> I was actually talking to someone who
was who was working on V3 and I told him
the script thing and he goes, "Oh,
actually scripts. Yeah. No, like the way
the data is formatted in a script that
would actually be very good because you
know they start with like you know set
looks dark interior this uh character
says it in this raspy voice and so it
gives you all the instructions in the
script.
>> Oh man, just unlocked a whole new
business unit right there.
>> Yeah. Okay. Two more questions. One is
do you have a favorite life motto that
you often think about find useful in
work or in life?
>> Yeah. Uh the end is never the end.
That's like my favorite like internal
saying. Um, and it goes to the comments
uh before about survival being a
precursor surviving being a precursor to
thriving. You know, you got to survive
before you thrive, which is your brain
tells you. And along these
entrepreneurial journeys, I think this
is most applicable. It I mean this is
the hardest journey anyone can go on.
Like if you go on this journey for 5
years, like you are mentally harder than
like 99.9% of the population. This is
like people don't understand the Chinese
water torture of like having self-doubt
and like having things go wrong etc. And
so um you know more tactically you get
this when you're working out and you
know like like in a day like oh I'm too
tired like I need to stop. But the truth
is is you can keep going um and the
world's going to keep spinning. So I
find in the moments where it's just like
the hardest or you have this hard
decision that seems impassible and your
body you're having this visceral
reaction to like this is not this is
impassible
just just to remind yourself that like
I'm going to wake up tomorrow like this
isn't the end there's another end
somewhere I just find that to unlock me
to be like okay there might not be a
perfect solution there might be like an
imperfect solution but it's a solution
so let's just keep going. Final
question. You helped create Uber Eats. I
imagine you're still a power user of
Uber Eatats. You have a favorite
restaurant on URIs that maybe people
should know about maybe that you order
most from?
>> I order a shocking amount of McDonald's
actually despite my like like original
story. Um uh it's it's sort of the
family treat in the house. I would say
that that's uh that's probably the top
thing that we order.
>> Oh man, I'm worried for your health, but
I love I haven't had McDonald's in so
long. this is like maybe I should give
it another
>> I mean I mean more practically we will
order like mixed greens or tender greens
or something like that like on a
day-to-day basis but like you know I
think that like the more notable
surprising thing is is that despite my
initial aversion to working um with a
global chain like it's a good treat once
in a while you just shouldn't have it
all the time Jason this was incredible I
really appreciate you making time for
this I'm really honored to be the first
chat you've had since taking over at
scale um where can folks find you online
if they want to maybe reach out, learn
more about what you're I don't know,
maybe look for maybe a join scale. Uh
where do you want to point people to and
how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I'm J Droy. Uh J D R O
E G at uh you know on on X. That's
probably the easiest way to follow me,
keep up with things, and you know, you
can shoot me a DM if you like. And uh so
I think that's how you would um keep in
touch. And sorry, what was your other
question?
>> Uh if you're hiring, I don't know where
should people go check it out if you
are. And then also just Yeah. Yeah,
absolutely. Just go to scale.com, go to
our careers page, and we have 250 open
roles. Uh to the point about, you know,
we're in business and we're growing. Uh
we're hiring a ton of people. Um our
applications business, you know, our
data business is growing. Our
applications and services business is
growing like crazy. Um and so we're
going to need a lot of people to help us
on that journey.
>> You guys just signed some insanely large
contracts with the government. I was
reading
>> two 100 million contracts.
>> 100 million contracts.
>> Yeah. We didn't sign just one, we signed
two in one month. So yes, no, the our um
our federal business is doing well. Our
enterprise business is doing well. Our
our international government's business
is doing well. Um there's a lot of
demand out there.
>> Some sales people are getting some great
commissions. Good job, Jason. Thank you
so much for being here.
>> Yeah, thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Honored to
be a guest here. Um you know, super
excited to be with, you know, be with
you, especially so early in the journey,
um or at least my journey here, uh
leading scale. I appreciate it. Thanks
for Thanks for coming. Thanks for
joining us. Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.